hi everyone welcome in this video we are
going to learn about git and github why
they are important and also how to use
them so we're going to start off going
over the terms and concepts that you
will use in git
and the ecosystem and then get into
practical applications
this tutorial will include everything
from basic git repositories
to what is github
to some more intermediate concepts like
branching and merging and forking and
that kind of stuff
i want to quickly introduce myself my
name is gwen and i run a youtube channel
called faraday academy
where i upload coding tutorial videos
and i also do a couple live streams a
week mostly on python and javascript
topics as well as some more general
purpose coding videos
you can also find me on twitter and
instagram and pretty much everywhere by
typing in gwen faraday
and let's get started with the tutorial
i want to start off here by defining
what git is
git is what we call a version control
system that is free
and open source and it's the most widely
used version control system in
development today most programmers
interact with git on a daily basis
so what is version control
version control is basically a way that
we as programmers track our code changes
we basically save an initial version of
our code into git
and then when we update code we can save
it into git again
and again and again and again and
throughout time as our code continues to
change we can look back at all of the
changes we have made over time this
helps us to see and understand what we
did when as well as track down bugs or
go back to a previous version of the
code if we need to
so let's look at some of the terms that
you're going to see in this video
first of all i use the term directory
which is also known as a folder on your
computer when i reference the terminal
or command line i basically mean an
application that runs on your computer
which is just an interface where you can
type in text commands
you can navigate around files and
folders create files change update
things
install and run programs and much more
you might also hear me use the term cli
which is just the command line interface
many programs that you install as a
programmer will require you to interact
with them via text commands in the
command line
so you will be typing out some text and
hitting enter instead of say double
clicking on a folder icon on your
desktop just think of it as another way
to run a program now you might be
wondering why are we going to use the
terminal or command line instead of
using one of these beautiful
applications that handle interacting
with git for us
well as programmers it's always good to
use the terminal so you learn the get
commands and workflow of git as well as
become accustomed to it as a developer
you are going to be using the terminal a
lot to install clis run programs search
for things etc throughout your
development career and learning git is a
great way to get started with the
command line
cd stands for change directory it's
basically the same thing as when you
double click on a folder using the icons
on your desktop while in the command
line if you want to move into a folder
or even up to a parent folder you'll use
cd
followed by the directions to get to
whatever folder on your system you want
to get to
a code editor of course is a place to
write code
you'll probably see this in a lot of
different programming videos but just in
case you are unfamiliar with it you can
write code anywhere in a text document
word processor anything
but there are special ones that are
designed with lots of tools and features
for programmers and these are called
code editors
now some people get confused by the word
repository because it has multiple
meanings
but in the world of programming it
usually refers to a git repository which
is basically just your project or the
folder place where your project is kept
you can call it a repository
people also sometimes confuse git and
github
now git
is the tool that tracks the changes in
your code over time
github is a website where you host all
of your git repositories
being online it makes it easy to work in
groups with other people and organize
your projects into a portfolio for you
to show potential employers
so here are some of the get commands
we're going to cover in this video which
you will be typing into your terminal or
command line on your computer
they are clone for example if there's a
repository that is not on your local
machine but it's on github and you want
to bring it down on your local machine
so you can use it locally you use the
clone command by the way all of these
commands are lowercase not uppercase as
we're going to see as we go through the
examples in this video
when you have updated files or created
or deleted files and folders you're
going to want to tell get that you made
changes and that you would like get to
track those changes so you use the add
command for that as i said earlier git
is there for you to save the changes you
make in your code so you do that through
a commit and we call it committing your
changes
once you have made changes locally on
your computer and you are ready to put
them in git you tell git to track them
through the add command you save your
files to get through the commit command
and then you upload your files to a
place like github or another what we
call remote repository or github
alternative like bitbucket gitlab and
there's many of them you do this through
the push command
when there are changes to your code on
github and you want to bring those to
your local machine then you use the pull
command you pull down changes from the
remote repository those are all the
commands that i want to cover to get
started again we're going to go over
examples of each of
these the first thing you will need to
do is of course sign up for an account
on github
this is pretty straightforward you enter
minimal information and then you sign up
for an account you will get an email
that will ask you to verify and then you
can log into your account
when you log in you will either be on
this page which is your profile page
that you can access from this drop down
menu
or you might be
on the dashboard page here
either way you will have access to this
green button here
or this plus sign and the drop down here
where you can create a new repository
now a repository is basically a project
it's all of your coding files and
folders for whatever kind of application
that you are building
for example this is a repository that i
have it's for a curriculum app that i've
been building you can see the mock-ups
pretty straightforward application and
in this repository this is my complete
project with the folders and all of my
coding files are inside of these folders
for this one application
each application or project is in a
separate repository so i'm going to go
ahead and create a new repository here
give it a name demo repo
by the way repo is just short for
repository
i'm going to leave these settings as
they are
and click create repository
now you can create your files and
folders for this repository locally on
your machine
or you can create them straight in the
online editor on the github website so
i'm going to go ahead and create a basic
markdown file called a readme and this
is the most basic file that you will
find in almost every project that
contains text to describe what the
project is about what it does and any
other relevant information so i'm going
to click here create a new file i'm
going to name it read me
dot md for markdown
markdown is basically an easy way to
format your text in these sort of files
so i'm going to come down here
and type some text now markdown has all
these shortcuts like one hashtag for
a main header so i'm just going to put
demo here and then some plain text so
i'll put some
description
and then i'll scroll to the bottom to
commit
the file in other words save this file
i just want to point out really quickly
that this create readme.md
is placeholder text but if you don't
write anything else here when i commit
this
it will use this text as the default
so let me commit
and you can see here that this is the
commit message from when i saved this
readme file and now you can see the
readme file which because it's named
readme.md
is the default file that github always
shows down here
i can also go into the file here which
is the same thing except with a few
different options here
and in either screen i have this edit
this file option so i'm going to go
ahead and do that
i'm going to simply change this
to an exclamation point
now the default text instead of create
readme.md is now update readme.md
which isn't that descriptive but it's
okay for right now
so i'm going to commit
and by committing i saved my changes
here and if i go to the demo repo
it shows my last commit message here as
update readme.md
now if i want to see my entire history
of changes in other words every commit
that i've made i can come here to
commits
and each commit has a unique identifier
and i can also see the message or the
title that i wrote on these commits so i
can come back to this one and see what
was added this green with the plus signs
means these lines were added to this
file
and then i'll go back
and in the updated commit it shows me
this red with the minus sign
that means this line was deleted and
then the green with the plus means this
line was added anything that's white
means it stayed the same so this is a
very basic view of seeing changes
now what about using this on your local
machine
if you are using a mac or linux
operating system you should already have
git installed
you can check this by opening your
terminal or command line application
and typing in get space dash dash
version
if git is not already installed i highly
recommend checking out this tutorial by
atlassian which i will link in the
description below
it walks you through how to install git
on any operating system
now i do want to note for the windows
installation when you download the get
windows installer i recommend you choose
the get bash option from the install
menu you can of course use command
prompt and it will set up get in command
prompt for you but in the past i've had
an easier time with git bash on windows
for mac it gives you a few different
options for install
but i highly recommend you use the
homebrew package manager if you can and
it takes you through all of the steps
here
but again you probably already have get
installed if you're using a mac or linux
and don't need to worry about this
there's just one more piece of setup
before we continue with the rest of the
git tutorial and that is getting a code
editor
of course you can write code in whatever
you want any type of word processing
software will do from notepad to
microsoft word but there are specific
ones made for coding and many of them
are really good and free visual studio
code is a free code editor made by
microsoft is widely used with people
learning to code and professionals alike
so you can install it for free from
code.visualstudio.com
it's available on every major operating
system mac windows and linux
now i have visual studio code open
with no files or folders inside
if you haven't used this before then all
of these icons on the side are how
you're going to navigate around your
project and use your tools
so i'm going to come to this top one
and this bar comes out where i'm going
to see all my files and folders i'm just
going to open a folder real quick
in this test folder i'm going to go to
my git
then this is an empty folder that i have
i'm going to click open
and now i have a folder that's open in
visual studio code that i can actually
add files and folders to but i'm not
going to right now because i'm actually
going to pull the repo that we created
at the beginning of this tutorial here
on github i'm going to pull that to my
local system using git
so in visual studio code i have access
to a terminal from here that i'm going
to use
if i come up to the top
in the view menu i'm going to come to
terminal and select it and now it opens
this terminal here
by the way the only reason why this says
git is because my folder is named git
and because i've opened the folder here
it automatically uses that as the
directory for my terminal
so now i want to clone down my repo to
my local machine i want to pull all that
code down here so i can work with it
locally i'm going to use a command
called git clone
and then in clone or download here clone
with ssh exactly what we just set up so
i'm going to copy this
go back to my terminal and paste and
i'll hit enter
and now we can see a folder here
which is my repo from github that's
pulled down
into the directory that i am in so i'm
going to move inside this folder real
quick from the command line which i can
just do by cd
and then the name of the folder to
change directory into the folder so now
i am inside of the folder demo repo
which was the name of the repository we
created on github so when it pulled it
down it gave the folder this name so my
whole repository is inside of that
folder and now it says git master now
this might look different on your
machine this part looks different on
every machine
i have a specific setup to make it look
like this but either way you will
probably see some kind of indication
that you are in a git repository now now
how do you know this looks like a
regular folder and a regular readme file
well there's actually a hidden folder
that you can't see here and that you
won't see on most operating systems
unless you have selected to show hidden
folders and that is called the dot get
directory so there's just a special
command in my terminal that i will use
to show you that folder now the la
command that i used here is actually a
mac shorthand
for ls space
dash la
which means list everything in the
directory including hidden files and
folders so if you're not on a mac i
don't think la will work for you but you
can use ls space dash la to do the same
thing
so you can see here's the readme file
and then there's something dot git
and because it's blue here that means
it's actually a folder
and this hidden git folder
actually stores all of the files that
save your commits or your code changes
over time
it has all of the changes recorded in
the history of this repository
which includes the ones we made on
github.com
so now let's make some more locally i'm
going to go into the readme file
and come here and add a subheader
not too creative i'm just going to call
it subheader
and then some more text
now that i have changed this file i need
to save the changes in git
so i do that through a commit still so
first i'm going to use the get status
command
now the git status command shows me all
of the files that were updated or
created or deleted but haven't been
saved in a commit yet
so for example if i come here and i
create a new file i'm going to call this
index.html
and i'm just going to put a quick div
inside
with nothing else and now let me rerun
the get status command and now you can
see i have one file that's been modified
and one file that it says is untracked
meaning git doesn't know about this file
yet so you have to tell git to track the
file before you can save it to git
to do that you need to use the get add
command and then tell it which files to
track now most of the time or a lot of
the time you see people use a period
which means you're telling git to track
all of the files that are listed here in
both the untracked and the modified
section so both the changes we made to
readme and the new file index.html would
be staged with git if we did git add
period because it includes all of the
files
you could also
optionally tell it just the names of
each individual file or folder that you
want get to track
in this case i'm just going to use the
dot
now i'm going to use git status again
and now you can see that all of the
changes have been tracked that's why
they show up differently now and they
are ready to be committed so i'm going
to come here
and do git commit
dash m now dash m is for message and you
need to have a message in order to
commit your files the message could be
one character in meaningless if you want
but there needs to be a message and
ideally that message should have
something to do with the what and why
behind the commit you're making
so i'm going to add a message here
added index.html and this is just the
title of the message if you remember
from the web interface there were two
boxes a title and a description this
first dash m and what's inside of the
quotes is a message you can add a second
one for the description box
so i can say sum description
and i'll click enter
and now it gives me some information two
files change five insertions but we've
still only saved our code locally the
commit isn't live on github yet we make
it live by using another git command
called git push which means i want to
push this live to a remote repository
where my project is hosted
in order to push them to github under
your account you're going to have to
prove to github that you are the owner
of your account
so you have to connect your local
machine to your github account somehow
the way this is done is by using ssh
keys
you need to start by generating a key
locally using the ssh keygen command
then you specify the type of encryption
and then the strength of encryption
and at the end you need to include your
github email address
this is just a test for me because i
already have keys set up so i'm just
going to put a fake email address
but make sure that the email address you
enter here is the same one you use to
log into your github account click enter
now the default file for the ssh key is
inside your user directory in the dot
ssh directory and it will be called id
underscore rsa
i'm going to give it a different name
here because i already have a key under
that name
you can optionally enter a passphrase
for your key here or leave it blank so
i'm just going to click enter to leave
it blank and my key has been generated
now i am going to search for the key
that i just generated
and now i find that there are two so
there's testkey and testkey.pub
so
pub testkey.pub the key that you are
going to upload to your github interface
pub stands for public it's called your
public key
which means that it's okay for other
people to see this key the key that was
generated without the dot pub extension
is called your private key and is the
one that you have to keep secure on your
local machine you don't share this key
with anybody how it works is that the
public key you put on github and then
every time you want to connect to github
or push your code on github or use your
account via your local machine
you use your private key
to show github that you are the one that
generated this public key
it's a mathematical proof that only this
private key could have generated this
public key
i'm going to print out this public key
and your key should look something like
this
ssh
rsa starts with this it has a bunch of
characters in the middle and it ends
with your email
now you need to copy this whole key
which you can do by
highlighting it in your terminal or
command line which automatically copies
it you don't need to do control or
command c
because control c actually means
something completely different in the
terminal not copy
there's also a terminal command that
allows you to copy it's called pb copy
and then you do the less than symbol and
then the path to your file
so it's in our user home directory and i
didn't actually push it put it in the
dot ssh directory but this is the
directory you would have your key in
and then it's just test key dot
pub
and now it's copied to my clipboard
on github i'm going to go to settings
and in the list of all settings i'm
going to go to ssh and gpg keys
and you can see any ssh keys associated
with your account then you just click on
new ssh key you can give it whatever
title you want this is just for your
reference
and then you paste your key in here
and i'm going to remove the extra enter
at the end and now add ssh key to
confirm my password
and now you can see my key was
successfully added
the only thing left to do is to make
sure that your local get command line
interface knows about the key you just
generated and i'm going to link all of
these steps in the description below you
need to start the ssh agent then if
you're using version
10.12.2 or later you will need to modify
this file your ssh config
and add this text to it
i'm going to just show you how to get
into that file now paste the location of
the file in your ssh directory
and then anywhere in this file perhaps
at the end you can paste in that
information
i'm not going to do that because i
already have my file set up so i'm going
to delete it
after you do that you'll run this ssh
add command from your terminal
and then your key will be set up to work
with git
again all of the information that i
covered with keys here is going to be
linked in the description below
but this is the general way that you
will do it with any operating system
although there might be some slight
variations
now there are two more arguments we have
to put here the first one is origin
and the second one is master
now origin is an option set for us here
and is basically a word that stands for
the location of our git repository
master is the branch that we want to
push to and we'll get into what that
means in a minute i'm going to click
enter
and now i'll refresh this page
and you can see my code changes are all
live on github now
you can also see that there are three
commits
two that we made online
on github.com
and one that we made locally and pushed
up to github.com
of course this was our commit message
that we made locally
and this was the description that we
wrote after that second dash m
we can see all of our file changes that
we made locally here as well
so this was to demonstrate how to create
a new git repository using github but
what about if you start a repo locally
so let me exit out of these
and i will create a new folder here
called demo
repo 2.
drag it outside
so now it's in a completely separate
folder from the other git repository
that we have but this one's not a git
repository yet and nothing's in there
so i'm going to move into that folder in
the terminal
demo
2. so now i'm in demo 2. you can see
it's not a git repository
even if i look for that hidden get
folder it's not there
so let me first add a file in here and
i'm again going to add a readme file dot
md
and i'm going to add a header demo
and some text
now if i want to turn this into a git
repository i can use the command line
and say git
init
and it says initialize git repository in
yada yada this folder and now you can
see i have
the get keyword there
and if i do get status
i can see there's this untracked readme
file
i will go ahead and add that file either
with the period or the name of the file
git status again
okay so the file is ready to be
committed and now i will do git commit
dash m
created
readme
and now i'll put description here
and enter
now what if i want to push this live
let's try get push origin master
and now you can see it's giving me this
error fatal origin does not appear to be
a git repository because we didn't clone
this down from a git repository we
didn't already create this repo on
github we created it locally so git is
saying i have no idea where to push this
to because it's not connected to
anything
so we have to create that connection and
first the easiest way to do this is by
creating an empty git repository up on
github
so i'm going to come here create new
repository
i'm going to call this
demo
repo
2 don't need a description going to
leave all this here now i have another
empty repository
so to start pushing here i'm going to
copy this
and say git remote now remote means
somewhere else but not on this computer
we're going to use this to add a
reference to the remote repository on
github
and then i'm going to say add origin
and paste that link that i copied and i
can check that by saying git
remote
dash v
and it shows any remote repositories
that i've connected to this repo now
that these are set up
i can now use get push
origin
master just as i did before
now there's a shortcut here because if i
don't want to type out this whole thing
every time in the future i can just use
git push but i have to set something
called an upstream meaning this is where
i want to push it to by default so i'm
going to do dash u for set up stream and
then enter
and in the future i can just use git
push without typing out origin master
it says to github looks like everything
was pushed just fine i will refresh this
page and i can see the readme that i
just added so that's how you initialize
a repository locally and push it to a
remote location like github so let's
review the workflows that we've gone
over so far and compare the flow of
adding code in the github interface
versus writing it locally
so when we first started working in the
github interface we wrote some code in
the readme and then we committed our
changes we saved them to get
now notice there wasn't an ad step here
we never did a get add to stage changes
well that's because github handles that
for us so really by committing in github
we are adding and committing at the same
time and then that was it really because
it was our repository we had full access
to change whatever we wanted
we could just update the code just by
committing it in the github interface of
course we didn't have to push the code
because it was already live on github
there's no other remote repository
because it's already in the remote
repository
now if we didn't own the repository or
we didn't have access rights or we
needed other people to review our code
before we merged it in with all the rest
of the code
then we would also have to take the
extra step of making a pull request
which is something we're going to cover
later in this video
so let's compare this workflow if we're
just writing code on github versus doing
it locally and then pushing it up to
github so locally in our text editor we
wrote the code
and then we had to do git add to let get
know about the changes and then we saved
them to git using the git commit command
and then we pushed them to the remote
repository on github
using the get push command and that
updated github's code or the code in the
github repository with our changes that
were made locally
and then just like before if we didn't
have access rights or we needed a code
review before we merged changes in we'll
need to make a pull request
so these two methods cover the most
basic ways to use git by using the
github web interface and then doing it
locally
if you have any questions about this
then please leave them in the comments
below
otherwise let's move on to git branching
let's first go over some of the concepts
of branching and then we'll dive into a
practical example
now what is git branching you've seen in
our examples that we're on something
called the master branch
now master is a naming convention for
the main or the default branch in a
repository so if you're just working off
of one branch that's where your code
will live and all your code all your
commits everything will be in that one
branch
now this is called branching because it
starts to look more like a tree when you
have multiple branches
so we saw earlier that we had a master
branch we were committing to that master
branch
but we could also make another branch
we'll call it feature branch so let's
talk about what happens when we create a
new branch
at first the code on master and this new
feature branch will be exactly the same
but as you make updates to
the feature branch
those changes are only seen in the
feature branch so if you make changes on
the feature branch you make a commit to
save those changes onto that branch
and then you switch back to the master
branch you won't be able to see any of
the changes that you made on that
feature branch
each individual branch has no way of
knowing
what commits or what changes have been
made to any other branch each branch is
only keeping track of what changes are
made on its own branch
now you can continue to change the code
on master branch and save it through a
commit to the master branch and then if
you switch back to the feature branch
likewise you will not be able to see the
changes that you just saved to master
why is this useful
it's extremely useful because you will
be building out new features to
applications that may break your code or
they are not finished yet and you don't
want to save them to the main master
branch you want to work on them in kind
of a sandbox area so you can write all
the code you need and get it correct and
in the state that you want before you
merge it back into the main branch of
the code base
and this is really helpful when you have
many different people working in the
same repository or a lot of different
branches going on at once
one very common thing that you'll see in
development is that you'll be working on
let's say this feature branch for a week
or more
and you have all of these changes that
you've made
and then you find out there's this major
bug that you have to fix real quick
so for that we make this other branch
called it a hotfix branch here
represented by yellow and you can see
that i made the change in one commit to
fix whatever bug was wrong with the code
on its own branch
i made sure it was working correctly and
then i merged it back into the master
branch now that we've gone over the
concepts of branching let's dive into
the command line and try it out
and now i'm using a full screen terminal
just so i have more space as i'm running
different get commands that are going to
take up more screen space to show you
but it works the exact same way as the
terminal inside of vs code
so i'm back in my terminal inside of my
demo repo again
and you can see here i have information
about my git branch again you might see
this presented in different ways it
shows you're on the master branch
if i type in git
branch
you can see that i currently only have
one branch and it's master
and you can also see there's a star
beside it and that means that i am
currently on that branch
so i'm going to hit the letter q here to
get out of that
and now i'm going to create a new branch
so i do that with git
checkout
and git checkout is what you will use to
switch between branches
but to tell it to create a new branch
use dash b
and then you give it the name of your
branch
so in this case i'm going to call it
feature
now if you're working in a real
application with people you want to make
this name as descriptive as possible
some people like to use feature slash
the ticket number or description
or you can use hyphen
and then you could give it the issue
number like if it's a github issue
number 11 or whatever convention you
want to use
and then you can make this
longer if you want and put some more
details
i'm going to
call this feature
readme instructions because i'm just
going to be updating
a section of the readme
click enter
and now it says i switched to a new
branch meaning i created this new branch
called feature readme instructions and
now you see
that my branch changed so now if i do
get branch again
i have two branches listed here and the
top one is starred and highlighted so it
shows me which branch i'm currently on
i'm going to hit q
and like i mentioned git checkout
will switch between branches so now that
i am on this feature readme instructions
i can
check out master
and now you see i switched to master
i'll do git branch
shows i'm on master now
and i will do another get checkout
feature
readme instructions you see that i hit
the tab button and it auto filled the
rest of the branch so i didn't have to
type out the whole long name
you can also
hit tab
even if you don't start at the beginning
like in this case i started typing
feature and then hit tab
but i could actually start typing
instructions
and hit tab and it still auto-completes
now this is very useful because
eventually
when you work in a repo you're going to
start a lot of stuff with feature or
with bug or hotfix or whatever so only
your last few words will be unique so
that's just something useful to know so
now i'm back on the feature readme
instructions branch and i'm going to
make some changes on this branch
so i'm in my code here i'm going to come
into my readme
and make a new section
i'm going to say
just local
development or something
and then give it one step i wasn't going
to say open
index.html in your
browser
just as a demo all right i saved that
and you can see in vs code it gives me
this m here meaning it's been modified
since i've last checked this into git
that's kind of a nice feature to have to
see which files you've added and which
files you've modified right in your text
editor
all right now that i've modified some
files here i'm going to do the get
status command again
and it says i modified readme
so first i'm going to save things that
i've changed on this branch
so i'm going to do the git
add command
and i'm just going to stage the readme
changes
and now i will do a git commit
dash m and say
oops i have to put that in quotes so
updated
readme
okay so you can see i have one file
changed for insertions
so now it's saved to git but it's only
saved on this feature readme
instructions branch
so if i do a git checkout master
come back to my code and you can see the
changes aren't here
because they're only on that other
branch
now if i want to here
i can go ahead and merge these two
branches locally
using the get merge command
but before i do that i just want to
double check and see the code that i'm
merging in
which i can do through the get diff
command
now diff
or diffing shows me what changes have
been made it compares two versions of
the code and shows me all of the lines
that have been changed
and you kind of saw this in the get
interface because you saw a nice visual
representation of the diff where it
showed in green with a plus sign the
lines that had been added and then in
red with the minus sign the lines that
had been removed and let me
say get diff and the name of the branch
hit enter
and now you can see
it shows which file it's talking about
this readme.md file and in white it
shows text that was already been there
that hasn't been changed
and then it shows that my master branch
doesn't have some of the changes that
are in my other branch
so i'm going to hit q here to get out of
this all right now i could go ahead and
like i said use the git merge
command
pass in the branch and it'll merge in
those changes
but the more common pattern that you're
going to see
is pushing these changes on that branch
up to github and then making a pr
so i'm going to change back to the
feature branch
and now i'll do git status
and it says i have no changes to commit
because they've already been committed
but i do need to push them up to github
so let me run git push
and now you can see
since i'm on a new branch it says that i
need to tell it which branch on github i
want to push to
now the answer is almost always that the
branch will be named the same thing on
github
and on your local machine
so i could copy this line
and now you'll notice this set upstream
flag here
is the same thing that we were doing
before with the dash u
it's just shorthand for set upstream so
i'm going to hit enter here
and now it's pushed up to github
and it's even giving me a hint for how
to create a pull request on github
by giving me these instructions here
so what is a pull request or a pr
it's basically a request to have your
code pulled into another branch
in the example we're using today we have
a feature branch and we want to have our
code pulled into the master branch
so we make a pr from the feature branch
to the master branch now once we have
made a pr
anyone can review our code comment on it
ask us to make changes or updates
now after you make a pr you can also
update the code just by making
additional commits and pushing them up
to github
as long as it's on the same branch that
you're making the pr with once the pr is
merged you'll generally delete your
feature or source branch
and to switch back to the master branch
then when you want to make additional
coding changes
you will create another new branch and
start the process over make your commits
make a pr and then merge again
and i could go straight to this url but
i'm going to show you how to do it
manually on github
first so i look at my github interface
and you can see already
github picked up on the fact that i just
pushed a new branch
so now it's asking me right here if i
want to compare
this new branch to another branch and
create a pull request
and it takes me to this screen here
now sometimes this is confusing for
people which branch is being merged into
which branch this github interface does
a pretty good job because of the arrow
so you can see that the branch you're
comparing this feature readme
instructions will be merged into the
base so there's always a base branch
where all the code is going to get
merged into
and then there's the branch you're
comparing so now i have this message i
have a title that says i updated readme
and i can put some more description here
so usually i'm going to put a list of
the changes that i've made and maybe
some description as to why i made
certain decisions
so here i'm just going to say added
section about local development
to the
readme
and i will create a pull request
now that i've created a pull request i
can actually come here
in the interface i can see any comments
that people have made on the pull
request
or i can write more comments of my own
i can
look through all the commits i've made
that i'm trying to merge into master
right now
and i can also look at
all the files that have been changed and
see the diff of what's been added
removed or updated
another thing i can do right here is if
i want to make a comment about a
particular line of code that i've
written i can press the plus button this
blue plus button
and now i can make a comment there i'm
just going to say
add a new subheader and add it as a
single comment and you can see that the
comment appears at the line of code
where you hit the plus button
this is a really nice way if there are
multiple people
working on a repository to make comments
about specific lines of code and then
usually the person who created this pr
will reply to them with an explanation
or make another commit if changes need
to be made to the code or something
all right so i'm going to go ahead and
merge this pr
and you'll notice that i added the
single comment it says resolve now
because i'm the owner here i have full
permissions i don't have to resolve i
can still merge the pr
if you don't have permissions or your
repo set up in a certain way then you
might have to resolve comments before
you can merge
anyway i'm just going to merge here
confirm
and merge successful
now that the pr is merged
i'm going to
go over to the code
and if i scroll down
you can see that i am on the master
branch
and my changes are also here
so the branch was successfully merged
so locally now i'm going to switch to
the master branch
and if you look at the code the changes
aren't there yet
and that's because they are only on
github and i need to pull them down to
my local environment
so to get the changes on my local master
branch from origin
i'm going to do git pull
now if i didn't already set the upstream
i would have to do git pull origin
master
but i already have an upstream set here
so i'm just going to do git pull and
then enter
and you can see one file changed for
insertions
and now if i look at my code i can see
my local master has also been updated
with the changes from the branch
and now that i am done with that feature
branch
i'm going to do get branch
and it's still there even though i'm not
going to be using it again because you
don't really reuse branches that you've
already merged into your master branch
so i'm going to go ahead and delete this
branch
so i'm going to do get branch dash d
and then the name of the branch and
again i can tab over
so i'll hit enter
and now it says i deleted that branch so
now if i do get branch
and i only have master again all right
well that's all fine and great and works
well but in real life you're not always
going to have such an easy time merging
there's something called merge conflicts
in git
where basically you're building your own
code writing a bunch of code on your own
branch
maybe other people are writing code on
their branches and master is getting
updated from multiple different places
so it's possible for multiple people to
change the same files
and so sometimes git doesn't know which
code you want to keep or which code is
redundant or which code you want to get
rid of so you'll have to manually do
that
let's try that out let me create another
branch
i'm going to do git checkout dash b
and then i'm just going to call this
quick test all right i'm on the quick
test branch
now i'm going to come into index.html
and i'm going to add
a p tag here
and say world
and p all right so i modified this file
let me go ahead and do git status
it's always a good idea to do git status
before you commit anything
looks good what i can also do from here
is do a git diff
enter and it shows me all of the changes
that i've made since my last commit so
i'm gonna hit q
and now i will
commit these now generally the workflow
has been git add
and then file name or a period to add
everything in this directory this time
there's a shortcut because
we've just modified one file
and the file has already been committed
to get in the past which is why it says
modified and not created
so what i'm going to do is get commit
and then instead of dash m i'm going to
do dash a
which stands for add and m at the same
time for message
then i'm going to put my commit message
so this basically adds and commits at
the same time but it only works for
modified files not for newly created
files because if it's newly created you
have to stage that with git and let get
know about it first
for my message i'll just say added
world
okay and now i have one file changed to
insertions
now let me go to my master branch git
checkout master
you can see i don't have the changes
from my other branch there
but what if i updated the same line so
on master now i'm updating line two
and here i'm going to put
there so hello there so now master has a
line 2 but the new branch i created also
has a line 2. now everything is fine now
because both branches are separate but
what if i try to merge these two
together
who's line two is going to be put there
so let's try that i'm going to go to my
quick test branch so i'm going to do git
check out
quick test
and now it's actually giving me an error
and not letting me change branches
because i have local changes that line
two that i added in master it says it's
going to be overwritten if i change
branches
so it's asking me to commit before i
change so that way
that line two will be saved to get in
the master branch and won't be lost when
i change branches now stashing is a
little bit beyond the scope of this
tutorial but it's basically a way for
you to stash your changes somewhere
and then you can retrieve them later but
it's not making a commit to get
it's like a temporary holding place
so we're not going to do that i'm just
going to go ahead and commit
so let me do git status first
all right and i'm going to use the
shorthand because i only have the
modified file there so i'm going to do
git commit am
and then a commit message i'm going to
say added
there
and now i should be able to check out
press the up arrow key
i should be able to check out this quick
test branch
and before i merge master into this
branch i'm going to diff
against master real quick
and it shows me the changes here
so now i'm going to do merge
so remember how i said before that
merging locally wasn't the regular
pattern well it isn't for merging
branches into master
but
master gets updated as you go along as
you're working on your project because
maybe other people are merging into
master and you don't have those changes
in your branch
but you don't want to get too far behind
master as you're working because then
it's going to be really difficult to
merge later
so as changes are made to master in the
github repo you're going to want to pull
those down to your local master branch
and then whatever feature branch you're
working off of like quick test here
you'll want to use git merge master to
keep your branch up to date with what's
going on in master so that's what we're
doing here get merge master
hit enter
and now it says we have a conflict so we
have a merge conflict in index.html
so there are a couple ways to fix merge
conflicts interfaces like github give
you an interface to fix them
you can also fix it in the terminal but
the easiest way to fix merge conflicts
is directly in your code a nice code
editor like vs code will let you click
buttons like accept the current change
or accept incoming or take both of these
but you can also come in here make the
changes that you want and delete these
lines that get added this lets get know
that there's a conflict
and first between this head and these
equal signs it shows the code that we
have on the current branch that we are
on and then it shows the code coming
from the other branch that we're trying
to merge in so in this case i am just
going to delete these lines and save
both of the changes but in this case one
to line two and one to line three and
this is just letting git know what we
want to do because it didn't know how to
handle the conflict now we have handled
it and deleted the conflict markers
we can now look here and see that we
need to make another commit even though
it seems like we are adding and
subtracting the same things we basically
need to make a commit because we have
fixed the merge conflicts so i'm going
to say here get commit
dash am
and i can say merged in master
or
updated with master or something like
that and now i've officially updated my
branch with the changes that have been
happening on master branch and i can
continue coding whatever feature or bug
fix or whatever i'm doing on this quick
test branch
so what if we make a mistake what if we
accidentally add something or commit
something to get and we didn't mean to
do it we can actually undo our stages or
are commits
so let me come to readme i'm going to
add another line here
and say have fun
okay so i've made a change here on line
and back in my demo rebuild i'm going to
do git status
so now let's say i want to get
add this readme
and let me do git status again
and you can see before it said change is
not staged and now changes to be
committed meaning they've been staged
already
but what if i want to undo staging what
if i didn't mean to stage this file i
can actually easily undo it by using the
get reset command
so i can either do git reset with no
arguments or i can say git reset and
just the name of the file that i want to
unstage
so here i'm just going to do the plain
git reset
and it gives me a list of the files so
unstate changes after reset readme
now if i do another get status
it shows me that this file is no longer
staged
so what if i want to undo a commit so
let me go ahead and add
the readme file
and then i'm gonna come and commit
readme
and i'm gonna say added install
step
now if i do get status
you'll see there's nothing to commit
because all changes have now been
committed well if i made a mistake on
that commit i can use that same get
reset command
and this time
i'm going to say git reset head in all
caps and what head means to get is a
pointer to the last commit so i'm
telling it to do something with the last
commit
and then i'm going to say tilde 1
which is telling git instead of pointing
to this last commit that i just made
right here i want you to go back one
commit further
and head will now point back one commit
further meaning it will completely undo
the commit that i just made
let me click enter
and now you can see it says i unstaged
the changes so i'm going to say git
status
and what happened was that it unstaged
and uncommitted those last changes
so if i do git diff
you'll see that git picks this up as a
new change now
now if you have many different commits
you might want to go back to a specific
commit or undo multiple commits
and for that there's no quick pointer in
git like the uppercase head pointer
where you can just look at the last
commit or use that to undo the last
commit but you can see a log of all your
commits and you'll see that these are
arranged in reverse chronological order
so this is the latest commit that we
made and you can see with the commit
message that's also why it's important
to write a good commit message because
it's easier for humans to scroll through
and see which commit is which to get
these commits are differentiated with
this unique hash here so if you want to
go back to a certain commit
you can copy one of these hashes let's
say i want to go back to added world
before i added the their line
so i want to basically undo when i
merged this there
from master into this branch
so let me copy this commit hash
and by the way when you see all of these
commits you can scroll down with
spacebar and now it shows this is the
end so i'll say quit
so i'm going to do git
reset
and then the hash of that commit
and it's unstaged any changes made to
these files after this commit
so you can see the changes are still
there
i added have fun and this line three in
the index.html
but they are just not saved in get or
staged with git any longer so what if i
was just testing something out and i
want to
get rid of all of the changes after a
certain point
while i can do that by
using the get reset command as well
let me just
grab a commit hash
so i'm going to go back just a couple
random commits to
this commit right here where i said
updated readme i'm gonna hit q
[Music]
and now i'm gonna do git reset
dash dash hard meaning i want all of the
changes
to not just be unstaged but to be
completely removed
so head is now pointing to a different
commit because i've undone several
commits now
and if i look in my files we've just
completely gone back in time and erased
the latest updates
so those are the basics of branching
merging
fixing merge conflicts and undoing
staging and commits that you've made
one more thing that i want to quickly
mention is forking
you may have seen this already in the
git interface you can hit fork here
and then it's going to make a complete
copy of the repository
now why would you want to fork well you
probably don't want to fork your own
repo because you already have full
access to all of the code here but you
don't for other people's repos so let me
find just
a random repo
on github okay so here's vue.js
so let me click on this
and i actually don't have access to
change anything in this repo so if i
want to make a pr against this repo and
request for my changes to be added or if
i just want to
be able to branch off of the code in
this repo and do whatever i want with it
then i want to fork it
so i'm going to hit the fork button here
and fork it to my user account these are
just groups that i'm a part of on github
sometimes it takes a minute to fork over
all the code
especially with vue.js because it's a
large repository
all right and now you can see the repo
is no longer under the view js
organization now it's under my personal
github
and now that i've forked this i have
complete control to make any updates or
changes that i want to this code
so if i want to come into readme
and hit the pencil update this i can say
hide there and now i can come to the
bottom and commit changes again
so i can say
updated readme or whatever i want
i'm just going to leave it with the
default text again commit to the dev
branch
so before we worked off the master
branch as being the default branch
but sometimes when you're working in a
larger project with other people you're
going to want to create
multiple branches
like master staging and dev
for different kinds of environments
so in this case dev is set to the
default branch for this repository
instead of master so i'm just going to
commit my changes directly to dev
and you can see my changes here of
course they aren't part of the main
vue.js
view repository but they're part of the
one that i forked because i forked a
complete copy of that repository
including the branches associated with
it
and you can see dev
is marked as the default
so now what if i wanted to get my
changes back
into this vue.js repository of course i
don't but what if i did
i would go and create a pull request
so new pull request
and then as my base the place that i
want to merge my changes into i would
put the repository that i forked from
this vjs repository
and the branch
and i want to compare that with my
repository that i forked and the branch
on my repository that i updated of
course i'm not going to click create
pull request because this is just a demo
i can also see the diff down here of the
changes that i've made
and what commits i've made to this
branch on my fork
now if i want to merge within my fork
i can do that easily let's say
of course there isn't anything to
compare because i'm comparing the same
branch here
but i could merge into any other branch
let me find master here
so i could merge straight into master
and you can see i can create pull
requests now
i created a pull request
and
i'm going to create pull request
and you can see they had a bunch of
default text added to
the pull request information
but i'm just going to go ahead and merge
go back to the code
if i scroll down of course i'm on dev it
says hi there and now if i go to
master
it also has my changes on master because
i merged them
generally speaking after we merge a
branch into one of our default branches
like master then we would clean up the
branch that has just been merged in
other words we would delete it from
github and from our local machine
because we're not using that branch
anymore but it's a little bit different
when we use branches like dev staging
and master
because generally you're merging your
feature branches into either dev or
master and you have dev and master and
sometimes staging reserved for just
merging into so you don't make any
changes
on dev and master themselves you'll just
be merging other branches into dev or
master depending on how your code base
is set up
in a large project like vue.js
we would merge all of our feature
branches or bug fixes or whatever into
the dev branch and then delete the
branch that we just merged in
and then when all the changes on the dev
branch are ready those get merged into
master
but dev never gets deleted just like
master never gets deleted those kind of
stay around forever all the other
branches are just temporary
so me having my own fork
allows me full reign full access full
control
of crud operations create read update
delete whatever i want to do with all of
this code all of these files
and if i want to make some major updates
what i'm going to do is fork the
repository which i already did
pull my fork down to my local machine
make all the updates that i want to
test them out whatever i want to do
i'll push them back up to my fork
and then i will create a pr against the
original repository thanks so much for
watching i hope that you enjoyed this
video and that you also got something
out of it if you did then don't forget
to like the video and subscribe to the
free code camp channel don't forget to
check out my youtube channel called
faraday academy where i do weekly videos
and live streams on python and
javascript and other related programming
topics i would also appreciate if you
would leave me a comment here and let me
know what you liked about the video
or any other feedback that you might
have have a great day and i hope you
enjoy using git